1 lakh paramilitary troops likely for Bengal polls
Date: Jain | TNN | Updated: Jan 24, 2021, 08:57  IST
NEW DELHI: As many as 1 lakh Central para-military personnel may be deployed in West Bengal for the upcoming assembly poll, surpassing the nearly 75,000-80,000 personnel that had stood guard during 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the state. Though the Election Commission and home ministry are yet to work out a balance between the Central forces required by EC and availability assessed by the home ministry, officials concerned did not rule out deployment of at least 1,000 companies of Central armed police forces (CAPFs), essentially CRPF, given the concerns regarding law and order as well as apprehensions of political violence among most opposition parties in West Bengal. “More than 750 companies of Central forces were deployed during the last Lok Sabha polls in West Bengal. Since the upcoming polls are only in five states, unlike the countrywide parliamentary poll, the availability of forces is bound to be more,” an EC functionary said without elaborating on the extent of forces to be deployed this time. Assembly polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry are due to be held in April and shall wind up before the onset of CBSE board examinations on May 4. Sources in the Commission said EC may hold a fresh round of discussions with the home ministry after January 26 to finalise deployment details for West Bengal and Assam. Home ministry sources too indicated the requirement indicated by EC shall be adequately met. TOI has learnt that there are also some security-related concerns in Assam, where anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests have revived, and Kerala that is no stranger to violent clashes between cadres of various parties. During the EC’s just-concluded visit to Assam and West Bengal, most opposition parties expressed apprehensions about law and order as well as neutrality of the state police. The demand, particularly of BJP, was to let the Central para-military forces oversee poll security. On the other hand, the Trinamool Congress is said to have reassured EC regarding law and order situation in the state. Having heard both sides, the EC shall make its own neutral assessment of the law and order situation and monitor the same during polls by posting a special police observer in the state, as was done in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. EC may go for the presence of Central para-military forces at 100% polling booths in West Bengal, as per a source. Special expenditure observers may be posted in Tamil Nadu, where large-scale illegal cash flow has marred several past polls. In Kerala, violent clashes between party cadres pose a concern. The full Commission plans to visit Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry soon to assess poll preparedness. 