Rebels of Congress eye parliamentary board via poll body

Source and Date: Subodh Ghildiyal | TNN | Updated: Jan 25, 2021, 08:09  IST

NEW DELHI: Innocuous though it may seem, polls for the central election committee of Congress will open the entire decision-making process in the organisation outside the official group, a reason why it has emerged as the latest bone of contention in the party. The Congress constitution is so designed that election to the CEC will force the leadership to set up the parliamentary board, which is a key demand — besides elections to the post of party president and the Congress Working Committee — of the dissident group known as the G-23. This demand was the reason for the spat in the CWC meeting held on Friday, where the group loyal to the Gandhis led by Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and Ambika Soni and the G-23 led by Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik clashed. Though the CEC is merely a deliberative body which decides party candidates for assembly and parliamentary polls, a nod to its election would mean the party would have to constitute the parliamentary board — the top body on parliamentary issues which was discontinued by then party chief and PM P V Narasimha Rao in 1992. Article 25B of the Congress constitution says, “A CEC shall be set up consisting of members of the parliamentary board and nine other members elected by the AICC for the purpose of....” On the other hand, the parliamentary board, as per the Congress constitution (Article 25A), is set up by the CWC and consists of nine members, including the leader of Congress in Parliament. The Congress chief is its chairperson. While Congress has agreed to hold elections for the party president and the CWC, it has not yet spelt out whether it will set up the parliamentary board. “The push for election to the CEC is designed by dissidents to ensure an across-the-board say in decision-making. Whoever has thought of it has read the party constitution and is being clever. It is not the central election committee but the parliamentary board that they are eyeing,” a Congress insider said. 