Fintech startup Cred valued at $806 m post funding led by DST Global

Source and Date: Digbijay Mishra | TNN |  Jan 4, 2021, 21:10  IST

BENGALURU: Serial entrepreneur Kunal Shah’s two-year-old startup Cred has been valued at $806 million in a new round of funding of $81 million led by existing investor DST Global. DST Global has backed major internet startups like Swiggy, Ola, Udaan, Byju’s and most recently Cars24. Cred, which offers rewards for credit card payments, has also exercised an employee share buyback programme worth over $1 million for its current and former staff, creating one of the fastest such staff share liquidity programmes. Cred’s other existing investors like Sequoia Capital, Ribbit Capital, Tiger Global, and General Catalyst have also participated in this financing, which will be used to fuel growth. Shah said the company has managed to double its size during the pandemic and now has nearly 6 million members who use the platform to pay credit card bills. It focuses on a premium set of users. Applicants must have a minimum credit score of 750 to be a member. While it started as a credit card payments app, over the last six months it has launched new products that are said to be seeing strong traction. It has forayed into lending and rent payments. It also has Cred Pay, where merchants can sign up so users can pay them through Cred Pay. Some 1,400 merchants are on the platform. Shah said the majority of the new capital will be focused on user growth. “We had a very clear strategy to delay monetisation and focus on user growth. We believe we are a perfect platform for merchants, and banking and financial services players to cross sell their products,” he said. On the employee share buyback, Shah said even at its current valuation, 10% of the company is allocated to the employee stock ownership plan (ESOP). “We hope to maintain this in the subsequent rounds of funding. The idea is to create a serious wealth creation opportunity for the team,” he said. Cred has seen credit card spends surpassing pre-Covid-19 level. This is also attributed to its users being affluent, people who have faced relatively less impact on their incomes due to the virus outbreak. “Their consumption just shifted in different directions,” Shah said. Shah previously founded e-wallet Freecharge, which was sold to e-tailer Snapdeal for $400 million in 2015 in what was one of the largest M&As in the internet sector then. 