How Joe Biden plans to modernise US immigration system
Date: INDIA.COM |  Jan 20, 2021, 23:32  IST
NEW DELHI: The United States (US) welcomed its 46th President on Wednesday. In his very first acts, Joe Biden would look to undo the policies put in place by his predecessor Donald Trump. President Biden is all set to propose a modern and comprehensive immigration bill to Congress that is slated to stimulate the US economy while ensuring the protection of every worker. Known as the US Citizenship Act of 2021, the legislation proposes to eliminate per country cap for employment-based green cards -- a move that could largely benefit Indian IT professionals in the country. Here's how the bill proposes to work:* The bill proposes to create an earned path to citizenship for immigrant neighbors, colleagues, parishioners, community leaders, friends and loved ones. * It allows undocumented individuals to apply for temporary legal status in the country. These people will have the ability to apply for green cards after 5 years,if they pass criminal and national security background checks and pay their taxes. Only 7,990 Indian employees got green card in fiscal 2019* Dreamers, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) holders and immigrant farmworkers who meet specific requirements are eligible for green cards immediately under the legislation. * All green card holders who pass additional background checks and demonstrate knowledge of English and US civics can apply to become citizens after three years. * The bill reforms the family-based immigration system by clearing backlogs, recapturing unused visas, eliminating lengthy wait times, and increasing per-country visa caps. Aged-out kids in US: Must opt for international student-visa or self deport* It prioritises keeping families together by eliminating the so-called '3 and 10-year bars' and other provisions. It also explicitly includes permanent partnerships and eliminates discrimination facing LGBTQ+ families. * The bill clears employment-based visa backlogs, recaptures unused visas, reduces lengthy wait times, and eliminates per-country visa caps. * It bill makes it easier for graduates of US universities with advanced degree in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) to stay in US. * Further, it improves access to green cards for workers in lower-wage sectors; and eliminates other unnecessary hurdles for employment-based green cards. 86,000 odd Indian children will age out owing to the green card backlog, with a risk of family separation* Dependants of H-1B visa holders will be able to get work authorisation. Children will be prevented from aging out system. * The bill includes the No Ban Act that prohibits discrimination based on religion and limits presidential authority to issue future bans. It also increases diversity visa program from 55,000 visas to 80,000 per year. * It also creates a pilot program to stimulate regional economic development, giving authority to the department of homeland securities (DHS) to adjust green cards based on macroeconomic conditions. * The bill also incentivizes higher wages for non-immigrant, high-skilled visas to prevent unfair competition with American workers. (With inputs from agencies)