UK PM first European leader to get call from Joe Biden

Source and Date: NAOMI CANTON |  Jan 25, 2021, 00:30  IST

London: UK prime minister Boris Johnson is believed to be the first world leader outside North America and the third leader in the world to get a call from the new US president Joe Biden, in what is seen as a significant boost to UK-US relations post Brexit. The two leaders spoke on Saturday and vowed to deepen the special relationship between the US and Britain and drive a green and sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between the two countries and the need for coordination on shared foreign policy priorities, including China, Iran, and Russia. The call to the UK prime minister follows Biden’s first two calls after entering the White House which he made to Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and Mexican president Andrés Manuel López Obrador on Friday. This makes Johnson the first leader outside North America to get the coveted phone call — ahead of the likes of German chancellor Angela Merkel and Irish PM Mícheál Martin. Biden has Irish roots. In its readout of the call, the White House has said the US president conveyed his intention to strengthen the special relationship between the two countries and revitalise transatlantic ties, underscoring the critical role of NATO to the UK and USA’s collective defence and shared values. Biden noted the importance of cooperation, including through multilateral organisations, on shared challenges such as combating climate change, containing COVID-19, and ensuring global health security. Johnson tweeted a photo of the call in which he is wearing an open-neck shirt, with his sleeves rolled up, looking relaxed and jovial, standing up in his office at 10 Downing Street chatting to Biden. His tweet said: “Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between our two countries as we drive a green and sustainable recovery from COVID-19.” Former US president Donald Trump had relegated former UK prime minister Theresa May to 11th in the list of world leaders he rang following his election victory in November 2016. A Downing Street spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister congratulated the President on his inauguration and the two leaders noted the significant challenges facing the world during the pandemic, but also the unparalleled opportunities to build back better and greener together”. The UK prime minister praised Biden’s early action on tackling climate change and commitment to reach Net Zero by 2050. “The Prime Minister warmly welcomed the President’s decision to re-join the Paris Agreement on climate change, as well as the World Health Organization and the COVAX programme to ensure equitable access for vaccines,” Number 10 said. Building on their country’s long history of cooperation in security and defence, the leaders re-committed to the NATO alliance and their shared values in promoting human rights and protecting democracy. “They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between our two countries, and the Prime Minister reiterated his intention to resolve existing trade issues as soon as possible,” Downing Street added. Both leaders said they looked forward to meeting in person as soon as the circumstances allow, and closely working together through the G7, G20 and United Nations climate change conference, COP26. Indian PM Narendra Modi will be attending the G7 summit in Carbis Bay, Cornwall in Britain from 11 to 13 June. The UK will host the COP26 Summit in Glasgow in November, which follows on from the G20 summit in Rome at the end of October. 