UN cautions staff against flying by any Pakistan-registered airline

Source and Date: Omer Farooq Khan | TNN |  Jan 24, 2021, 00:08  IST

ISLAMABAD: The United Nations has cautioned staff of all its agencies across the world against using any Pakistan-registered airline, including the national flag carrier Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), due to concerns about the dubious flying licences of its pilots. The news about fake licenses of PIA pilots was revealed by the country’s aviation minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan on the floor of the National Assembly last year in July. An advisory issued by the UN Security Management System (UNSMS), stated: “Due to an ongoing investigation of the CAA (Civil Aviation Authority) Pakistan…due to dubious licenses caution is advised on the use of Pakistan-registered air operators.” The UN advisory against flying on Pakistan-registered carriers was recommended to all the UN agencies, including the UN Development Programme, World Health Organization, UN High Commission for Refugees, Food and Agriculture Organization, UN Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization and others. It signifies that UN officials working in Pakistan cannot travel by any Pakistan-registered airline even domestically. The Pakistan-registered airlines listed in the advisory include PIA, Air Eagle, Air Indus, Air Blue, Aircraft Sales and Services, Askari Aviation, Hawk Adventure Air, Hybrid Aviation, IAMC Airline, Meezab Aviation, Rayyan Air, Serene Air, Star Air Aviation and Vision Air International. The UNSMS has allowed its personnel to travel even by the Afghanistan-registered Kam Air. However, it noted that Afghanistan has an under-performing civil aviation authority as per the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO)’s audit programme, but the airline is authorised to conduct flight operations into multiple international airports. It is subject to an external audit. The advisory said that the air operator information is the result of a newly launched automated system, linked to a newly revised methodology and global air travel safety policy. Information and analysis generated by the Commercial Air Travel Safety Unit (CATSU) in relation to aviation safety is intended for UNSMS use only and is confidential. Such information may be shared with other UN recipients and third parties strictly on a need-to-know basis and provided suitable mechanisms are in place to maintain confidentiality. The advisory was issued sometime after the Pakistan aviation minister had dropped a bombshell alleging that hundreds of Pakistani pilots had dubious licences. Additionally, Pakistan has paid around $7 million to the Peregrine Aviation Charlie Ltd in the case pertaining to two jets leased to it by the Dublin-based AerCap. It’s over the same case that the Malaysian authorities last Friday seized a PIA Boeing-777 at the Kuala Lumpur airport on the orders of a local court over the non-payment of aircraft lease dues owed to the AerCap. 