Demand for Gangotri water spiked during lockdown

Source and Date: Sukanta Mukherjee | TNN | Updated: Jan 25, 2021, 09:15  IST

DEHRADUN: Since the distribution of bottled Ganga water started pan India under project ‘Gangajal’ in 2016, it has been in high demand, with recipients saying they are grateful for the service as the holy water can now be accessed at a minimal price without having to travel all the way to Uttarakhand. Priced at Rs 30 per bottle (including transportation), Ganga water, sourced from the river’s origin at the Gangotri glacier, is transported to 3,000 post offices under 22 postal circles in India. These are transported to a plant at the main post office in Uttarkashi, where it is treatedAuthorities say most takers are from Haryana and Jharkhand and the demand is the highest during August-September (when Kanwar Yatra takes place). It skyrocketed last year, as the yatra was cancelled on account of Covid restrictions. “During August and September last year, we sold 1.15 lakh bottles across Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh as well as other states. That is approximately four times what we distributed during the same time the previous year. Due to the lockdown, Kanwar Yatra had been cancelled and transportation was unavailable but we still managed to deliver,” Sunil Kumar Rai, director of Uttarakhand Postal Circle told TOI. The transportation is done through commercial vehicles, which were unavailable during the lockdown. The postal department used its own vehicles to carry Gangajal from Uttarkashi to Dehradun and then to Delhi via Saharanpur. Ganga water is collected from May to June and October to mid-November. “Procurement is done effectively in only about three months. It isn’t done for the rest of the year because of unfavourable weather conditions. Gangotri Dham is closed from November to April and from July to September due to heavy rains. However, it is supplied throughout the year,” Rai explained. Four to five labourers trek to Gangotri on a daily basis during these months and bring back 40-litre jerry cans full of Ganga water. These are transported to a plant at the main post office in Uttarkashi, where it is treated. The water is first poured into tanks and boiled for 24 hours and then left to undergo sedimentation for another 24 hours. After this, the bottling starts. “20-25 hired labourers work for 7-8 hours a day to bottle the water. They wear sufficient sanitary gear, including head covers, aprons and gloves during the process. Even footwear isn’t allowed inside the plant,” Rai added. Ganga water was initially available in recyclable transparent bottles of two sizes, 200ml and 500ml, and from two sources, Gangotri (Ganga’s origin) and downstream Rishikesh. At Rishikesh, the holy water would be collected from Shivanand Ashram and Muni-ki-Reti and bottling would be carried out at the Shivanand Nagar post office. However, seeing devotees preferred water from the river’s source because of its “higher spiritual value”, Ganga water was made available solely from Gangotri from 2019 and made available only in 250ml bottles. Till date, nearly 14 lakh (1,383,808) bottles of Ganga water reached households across the country. 