Download PDF version of voter ID from today

Source and Date: Bharti Jain | TNN | Updated: Jan 25, 2021, 10:24  IST

NEW DELHI: On National Voters’ Day on Monday, the Election Commission will roll out the ‘e-EPIC’, a noneditable and secure PDF version of the electoral photo identity card (EPIC) that can be downloaded on the mobile phone or in a self-printable form on the computer. The e-EPIC facility — to be launched by law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, ‘guest of honour’ at EC’s 2021 National Voters’ Day event on Monday, by distributing e-EPICs and EPIC cards to five new voters —will eliminate the wait for delivery of the physical EPIC card after it is approved. Now, immediately upon approval EPIC will be downloadable. Electors can print the card, self-laminate it or store it digitally, as per convenience. The e-EPIC shall be in addition to the plastic voter EPIC card being issued upon fresh registration. The e-EPIC can be uploaded by the voter on digilocker and stored securely with other documents. All new electors registered during special summary revision 2021 — those who applied during November-December 2020 — and whose mobile number provided while applying is unique, will get an SMS and may download e-EPIC between January 25 and 31, 2021. Thereafter, all other general electors will be able to download their e-EPIC w.e.f February 1, 2021, in case they are having unique mobile number in the e-Roll. Alternatively, they will have to undergo (KYC) process before downloading the e-EPIC. The e-EPIC will eliminate the need for a voter to get a new card made each time there is a change in address on account of migration. A single e-EPIC card would suffice, with only changed address in QR code, which can be downloaded afresh. This would enable the principle of ‘One nation — one election card’. Voters who have lost or damaged their EPIC card will be able to download duplicate cards for free. Currently, this facility entails a payment of Rs 25. National Voters' Day is celebrated on January 25 every year since 2011 to mark the foundation day of ECI. President Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest this year and will launch EC’s web radio, ‘Hello Voters’. 