Post-death ritual items of all faiths sold under one roof

Source and Date: TNN | Updated: Jan 25, 2021, 09:28  IST

AHMEDABAD: The shop of Mohammedmiya Masaniya in Ahmedabad’s Dariapur area does not have a shutter or door and remains open 24x7 and throughout the year. That’s not the only peculiar thing about the shop. For four generations, the Masaniyas have been selling items needed for post-death rituals of all faiths. The shop, which is called 'Saaj Khaapan ni Dukan’ sells every item required for rituals after the death of a person – irrespective of which religion he belongs to. “Muslims and Christians generally come and ask for `kafan’ (a cloth draped over the dead body) and coffin, but there are between 20 and 30 items that are required when last rites of Hindus are performed. We keep everything that is required,” said Saqib Masaniya, who along with his brother Rizwan, has been manning the shop at Delhi Chakla. Whether there is curfew or more recently during the lockdown, the shop of the Masaniyas has never shut down. “Our shop has no shutter. It remains open round the clock and throughout the year. That is because death can happen anytime in peoples’ families,” explained Rizwan. Saqib added that during the lockdown, the police themselves escorted them to Motera area, got shops opened and facilitated them to purchase things required for the last rites. “Years ago, when curfew used to be clamped in our area because of riots, our shop remained open round the clock,” said Saqib. Commenting on the pandemic, Saqib Masaniya said that when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, the order for `nanami’ (the bamboo framework on which a dead body is kept before cremation) grew significantly. Crematoriums of Naroda and Dudheshwar asked for many more `nanami’ that they usually ask for,” Saqib Masaniya said. Asked how did they know that the increased demand for `nanami’ was because of Covid-19 deaths, the brothers said that the entire set of about 20 items are sought by families if the death is because of other reasons. “In case of Covid-19 deaths, other rituals were not possible, as the bodies were sealed in polythene bags,” Rizwan said. The shop has been operational for more than 130 years. “Old timers tell us that it was started by great grandfather Akrambhai. His son Usmanbhai then manned the shop, after which our father Mohammedmiya manned the shop. We are the fourth generation to run the shop now,” said Saqib. 