Single women scripting Maharashtra revolution
Date:  Jain | TNN | Updated: Jan 24, 2021, 08:21  IST
MUMBAI: A revolution is quietly brewing in the patriarchal Marathwada region of Maharashtra, and women such as Sumanbai Nurude (55) are scripting it. Nurude, who was widowed 30 years ago and sent back to her parents’ village with her two daughters, contested the gram panchayat elections from her Bhaswadi village in Nanded district and, to her surprise, won. “I was surprised when I was declared winner. It is hard for a single woman to come so far. But now that I have got the opportunity, I will work to raise the issues of women and focus on helping more single women,” said Nurude, adding that her daughters and brother have been her pillars of support. For years now, Nurude has been trying to avail of a government scheme that gives subsidies to widows to build homes but has not managed to get her application cleared yet. “There are many women like me who don’t want to be a burden on anyone and would like to earn and live alone with their children. These schemes are meant for us, but very few manage to get their benefits,” said Nurude. Several single women who are either widowed, have remained single due to caste or health issues, or were “left” by their husbands as they could not conceive or had given birth to girl children have contested gram panchayat elections from the drought-prone districts of Marathwada where the caste system is still robust and very few females manage to step outside the shadows of their husband, father or brothers. “A total of 194 women connected to our organisation contested the elections and 68 won. This is such a proud moment for us. Most of these women wouldn’t even attend gram sabha meetings initially. We encouraged them to attend these and raise their complaints. When these women would start asking questions, the men would ignore them. Taking from these experiences we decided last year to train these women to contest the gram panchayat polls. We even did a mock election at our organisation last year to boost their confidence,” said Ram Shelke, Marathwada representative of Coro India, which works as a facilitator with Ekal Mahila Sangathana. The sanghatana, which was started in 2014, now works with more than 19,000 women. Elections in nearly 13,000 gram panchayats were held earlier this month in the state. For Kaushalya Kalsule (32) from Beed district, a widow with two children, it was not an easy ride, though. “First, my mother was opposed to my decision to contest. I told her very clearly that I will go ahead. Then, after she agreed, I got threats from men in my own village who asked me to take back my candidature. While other candidates were luring voters with non-vegetarian meals, I couldn’t even offer women tea from my house as we had limited sugar,” said Kalsule who lost the election by just three votes. “But I am not dejected. I will continue to attend meetings and ask questions and will contest in the next elections,” she said. Shelke said that with representatives of the panchayat samitis, they will ensure that details of all single women from these villages are registered. At the moment, there is no record of how many single women live in the villages. “Unless a record is created, how will you ensure that the policies reach them,” asked Shelke. 