West Bengal man gives Rs 1 crore plot for fire station

Source and Date: Sujoy Khanra | TNN | Updated: Jan 21, 2021, 09:21  IST

SABONG (WEST MIDNAPORE): Moloy Das, the owner of a steel fabrication unit and a resident of Dandurda village in Sabong, has donated a 0.4-acre plot worth Rs 1 crore, to set up a fire station in Bonai — an adjacent village — to meet a long-standing demand of the locals. Earlier, Rajya Sabha MP Manas Bhuniya and MLA Gita Rani Bhuniya had proposed to build the fire station for the rural belt. After hearing about the proposal, Das felt a sense of duty to donate his land for the betterment of the region. “In September 2, the land was handed over to the district administration. And on Wednesday, CM Mamata Banerjee laid the foundation stone for the fire station from the administrative meeting in Purulia,” said Gita Rani Bhuniya. “At 63, I have managed to earn a decent living through running a business. Among my three daughters, the youngest one is studying in a college. After the Bhuniyas proposed to set up a fire station, I discussed the need of the villagers with my family members. We all agreed that setting up a fire station would allow us to thwart major incidents, save property and lives. Hence, we decided to donate the plot. Thereafter, I contacted the local administration, expressing our desire to give up the land,” said Das. He added, “I was inspired by my grandfather, who had made similar donations. He had gifted plots on which a high school and post office were built. Earlier, I had donated another plot for setting up a primary school to cater to the children of my village.” Das plans to donate another plot and contribute towards building a hospital that will serve the villagers and meet the health crisis. “I have no political affiliation. However, I have always believed in serving my countrymen in every little way,” he said. The fire station will serve six blocks. The state government has allotted Rs 3.5 crore to build the fire station. Manas Bhuniya said: “I am elated that Das has voluntarily offered his plot. The fire station will help a large number of villagers.” 